README.md, before:

![moq logo](moq-logo-small.png) [![build](https://github.com/matryer/moq/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/matryer/moq/actions?query=branch%3Amaster) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/matryer/moq)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/matryer/moq)

Interface mocking tool for go generate.

### What is Moq?

Moq is a tool that generates a struct from any interface. The struct can be used in test code as a mock of the interface.

![Preview](preview.png)

above: Moq generates the code on the right.

You can read more in the [Meet Moq blog post](http://bit.ly/meetmoq).

### Installing

To start using latest released version of Moq, just run:

```
$ go install github.com/matryer/moq@latest
```

Note that Go 1.18+ is needed for installing from source. For using Moq with
older Go versions, use the pre-built binaries published with 
[Moq releases](https://github.com/matryer/moq/releases). 

### Usage

```
moq [flags] source-dir interface [interface2 [interface3 [...]]]
  -fmt string
    	go pretty-printer: gofmt, goimports or noop (default gofmt)
  -out string
    	output file (default stdout)
  -pkg string
    	package name (default will infer)
  -rm
    	first remove output file, if it exists
  -skip-ensure
    	suppress mock implementation check, avoid import cycle if mocks generated outside of the tested package
  -stub
    	return zero values when no mock implementation is provided, do not panic
  -version
    	show the version for moq
  -with-resets
    	generate functions to facilitate resetting calls made to a mock

Specifying an alias for the mock is also supported with the format 'interface:alias'

Ex: moq -pkg different . MyInterface:MyMock
```

**NOTE:** `source-dir` is the directory where the source code (definition) of the target interface is located.
It needs to be a path to a directory and not the import statement for a Go package.

In a command line:

```
$ moq -out mocks_test.go . MyInterface
```

In code (for go generate):

```go
package my

//go:generate moq -out myinterface_moq_test.go . MyInterface

type MyInterface interface {
	Method1() error
	Method2(i int)
}
```

Then run `go generate` for your package.

### How to use it

Mocking interfaces is a nice way to write unit tests where you can easily control the behaviour of the mocked object.

Moq creates a struct that has a function field for each method, which you can declare in your test code.

In this example, Moq generated the `EmailSenderMock` type:

```go
func TestCompleteSignup(t *testing.T) {

	var sentTo string

	mockedEmailSender = &EmailSenderMock{
		SendFunc: func(to, subject, body string) error {
			sentTo = to
			return nil
		},
	}

	CompleteSignUp("me@email.com", mockedEmailSender)

	callsToSend := len(mockedEmailSender.SendCalls())
	if callsToSend != 1 {
		t.Errorf("Send was called %d times", callsToSend)
	}
	if sentTo != "me@email.com" {
		t.Errorf("unexpected recipient: %s", sentTo)
	}

}

func CompleteSignUp(to string, sender EmailSender) {
	// TODO: this
}
```

The mocked structure implements the interface, where each method calls the associated function field.

## Tips

* Keep mocked logic inside the test that is using it
* Only mock the fields you need
* It will panic if a nil function gets called
* Name arguments in the interface for a better experience
* Use closured variables inside your test function to capture details about the calls to the methods
* Use `.MethodCalls()` to track the calls
* Use `.ResetCalls()` to reset calls within an invidual mock's context
* Use `go:generate` to invoke the `moq` command
* If Moq fails with a `go/format` error, it indicates the generated code was not valid.
  You can run the same command with `-fmt noop` to print the generated source code without attempting to format it.
  This can aid in debugging the root cause.

## License

The Moq project (and all code) is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Moq was created by [Mat Ryer](https://twitter.com/matryer) and [David Hernandez](https://github.com/dahernan), with ideas lovingly stolen from [Ernesto Jimenez](https://github.com/ernesto-jimenez). Featuring a major refactor by @sudo-suhas, as well as lots of other contributors.

The Moq logo was created by [Chris Ryer](http://chrisryer.co.uk) and is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/).

Commit message:

moq: fork as a stepping stone to start promoting my changes upstream

README.md, after:

Interface mocking tool for go generate.

### What is Moq?

Originally by https://github.com/matryer/moq (Mat Ryer and David Hernandez).

Moq is a tool that generates a struct from any interface. The struct can be used in test code as a mock of the interface.

Refer to `example/` for basic usage.

This fork modernize the source code and improve some of its ergonomics. Hopefully, some of these changes will later be merged upstream.

This repository is covered by this [SLA](https://github.com/cirello-io/sla/blob/master/doc.go). If I decide to deprecate this package, I will do maintain for 3 months before archiving it.

### Usage

You can use straight from the repository. Minimum required version is Go 1.22+.

```
moq [flags] source-dir interface [interface2 [interface3 [...]]]
  -fmt string
    	go pretty-printer: gofmt, goimports or noop (default gofmt)
  -out string
    	output file (default stdout)
  -pkg string
    	package name (default will infer)
  -rm
    	first remove output file, if it exists
  -skip-ensure
    	suppress mock implementation check, avoid import cycle if mocks generated outside of the tested package
  -stub
    	return zero values when no mock implementation is provided, do not panic
  -version
    	show the version for moq
  -with-resets
    	generate functions to facilitate resetting calls made to a mock

Specifying an alias for the mock is also supported with the format 'interface:alias'

Ex: moq -pkg different . MyInterface:MyMock
```

**NOTE:** `source-dir` is the directory where the source code (definition) of the target interface is located.
It needs to be a path to a directory and not the import statement for a Go package.


In code (for go generate):

```go
package my

//go:generate go run cirello.io/moq -out myinterface_moq_test.go . MyInterface

type MyInterface interface {
	Method1() error
	Method2(i int)
}
```

Then run `go generate` for your package.

### How to use it

Mocking interfaces is a nice way to write unit tests where you can easily control the behaviour of the mocked object.

Moq creates a struct that has a function field for each method, which you can declare in your test code.

In this example, Moq generated the `EmailSenderMock` type:

```go
func TestCompleteSignup(t *testing.T) {

	var sentTo string

	mockedEmailSender = &EmailSenderMock{
		SendFunc: func(to, subject, body string) error {
			sentTo = to
			return nil
		},
	}

	CompleteSignUp("me@email.com", mockedEmailSender)

	callsToSend := len(mockedEmailSender.SendCalls())
	if callsToSend != 1 {
		t.Errorf("Send was called %d times", callsToSend)
	}
	if sentTo != "me@email.com" {
		t.Errorf("unexpected recipient: %s", sentTo)
	}

}

func CompleteSignUp(to string, sender EmailSender) {
	// TODO: this
}
```

The mocked structure implements the interface, where each method calls the associated function field.

## Tips

* Keep mocked logic inside the test that is using it
* Only mock the fields you need
* It will panic if a nil function gets called
* Name arguments in the interface for a better experience
* Use closured variables inside your test function to capture details about the calls to the methods
* Use `.MethodCalls()` to track the calls
* Use `.ResetCalls()` to reset calls within an invidual mock's context
* Use `go:generate` to invoke the `moq` command
* If Moq fails with a `go/format` error, it indicates the generated code was not valid.
  You can run the same command with `-fmt noop` to print the generated source code without attempting to format it.
  This can aid in debugging the root cause.

## License

The Moq project (and all code) is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Moq was created by [Mat Ryer](https://twitter.com/matryer) and [David Hernandez](https://github.com/dahernan), with ideas lovingly stolen from [Ernesto Jimenez](https://github.com/ernesto-jimenez). Featuring a major refactor by @sudo-suhas, as well as lots of other contributors.

The Moq logo was created by [Chris Ryer](http://chrisryer.co.uk) and is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/) - not used in this fork so to preserve rights.
